Troubleshooting docs attempt. (#1370)
Azure/azure-service-operator: docs/troubleshooting.md

# Azure Service Operator (ASO) troubleshooting

> This document is written from a beginner perspective to help those new to project understand common issues they might face. We hope to iterate and grow this document, so feel free to contribute!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document is written from a beginner perspective to help those new to the project understand common issues they might face. We hope to iterate and grow this document, so feel free to contribute!
```

> # What are the key learning so far

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Common issues to troubleshoot
```

## What are Operators and OLM?

To learn more about operators, Red Hat OpenShift has a good article on what they are conceptually and how valuable they can be. You can also find details on the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) [here](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.6/operators/understanding/olm-what-operators-are.html)

> ## Is Az-CLI version is important?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Is the Az-CLI version important?
```

Yes, please make sure it is 2.0.53 or later. To check your current version, run `az --version`. If you need to update to a later version, check out [Update Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/update-azure-cli).

> ## Does the steps work out-of-order?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Do the steps work out-of-order?
```

> Nope, for your first run through, make sure you follow the steps in order. This means setting up and installing the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) and proceeding with steps 1 to 7. This is also true for the steps documented in OperatorHub catalog. The steps there assume that you have successfully installed OLM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
No, for your first run through, make sure you follow the steps in order. This means setting up and installing the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) and proceeding with steps 1 to 7. This is also true for the steps documented in OperatorHub catalog. The steps there assume that you have successfully installed OLM.
```

> ## So what if I messed up while installing Azure Service Operator?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What if I messed up while installing Azure Service Operator?
```

If you've accidentally run through the steps out of order, or are having some trouble with the install process, check out the tips below. Thankfully, the Kubernetes eco-system provides enough flexibility that you should only need a bit of tinkering around to get the ASO running. Let's go through a scenario:

> Let's assume that as an end user Tats provided the wrong service principal when trying to set up ASO.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's assume that as an end user, Tats provided the wrong service principal when trying to set up ASO.
```

* Next, after regenerating/renewing the credentials, the user needs to re-run step 5 onwards as mentioned [here] (https://operatorhub.io/operator/azure-service-operator). However, only a few of these steps are impacted by the service principal change. For example, the step to retrieve and set the `AZURE_TENANT_ID` can be skipped.
    
Next, find the cloud env var for your cluster. You can find instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-powershell-independent-clouds#get-endpoint-using-get-azenvironment). 

Once you have that, create the `azureoperatorsettings.yaml` file from step 6 mentioned [here](https://operatorhub.io/operator/azure-service-operator), and replace the placeholder values into the respective fields. Finally, run `kubectl apply -f <location of your azureoperatorsettings.yaml file>`.

You should be able to see `azureoperator-controller-manager-***` pods running in your cluster. To view the pods, run `kubectl get pods -n operators` 

## I have already installed `azureserviceoperator` but I'm not sure which service principal secret is in use?

> This command might be able to help you see your secret locally. 

Reviewer 2: "might"? Will this not always work?

```kubectl get secret azureoperatorsettings -n operators -o go-template='{{range $k,$v := .data}}{{printf \"%s: \" $k}}{{if not $v}}{{$v}}{{else}}{{$v | base64decode}}{{end}}{{\"\n\"}}{{end}}'```
[SO thread for reference](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56909180/decoding-kubernetes-secret/58117444#58117444)

## What if I see the operator namespace already exists for the cluster?

> If you see that the operator namespace already exists for the cluster, it's likely the result of trying to install the operator previously. It also means that you can now successfully move on to the next step. 

Reviewer 2: Which step should that be?

Author: I can take a dig at what in this means to my mind, but I think folks with more idea can correct, essentially, there are few `yaml` config applies, so in case `cert-manager` is already applied, and we run the step again, it will show an error something like, `namespace already exist` which means user should move on to next step, also, there is a key thing which is en-user owners here: aka in case say a namespace is there but in `crashing` state then user need to make sure they restart etc.

cc: @sakthi-vetrivel

* `namespace already exist` - This means that azure-service-operator (ASO) has already been run for the cluster before.
* `service-principal` issues: If you're seeing silent failures with service principal in use, meaning it is expired or needs to be reset, you can follow the steps as mentioned [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/create-an-azure-service-principal-azure-cli#create-a-service-principal) or in step 4 here in the [OperatorHub guidance](https://operatorhub.io/operator/azure-service-operator).
* `kubectl api-resource` failure with `error: unable to retrieve the complete list of server APIs: metcs.k8s.io/vabeta=1: the server is currently unable to handle the request.` : This error indicates a networking error within your cluster and is not related to your Azure Service Operator installation or configuration.

 ## When trying to install cert-manager, I'm seeing that the connection is refused for `cert-manager-package`?
This could be related to following open error: https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/issues/2752
 
 ## The azureoperator-controller-manager seems to be in a crash loop. How do I investigate?

> `kubectl describe  pod operators`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`kubectl describe pod operators`
```

> To get logs in case ASO operator is crashlooping : `kubectl logs -n  operators pod/azureoperator-controller-manager-****** --container manager`

Reviewer 2: you might want to explain what the user should reaplace -****** with...

Author: cool thanks will try to come up with something and then you or @sakthi-vetrivel can correct it. thanks.

## What if I see cert-manager-webhook timeout errors?

This is network related, and you should check to see if there are any ongoing network issues. This is evidenced by common error messages like: `Post https://cert-manager-webhook.cert-manager.svc:443/mutate?timeout=30s: connection refused` 

> ## What if I am seeing APIserver errors like `metrics.k8s.io/v1beta1: the server is currently unable to handle request`?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What if I am seeing APIserver errors like `metrics.k8s.io/v1beta1: the server is currently unable to handle the request`?
```

> This could be a result of a Kubernetes internal error like control plane & data plane not being able to communicate. Follow normal Kubernetes troubleshooting steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This could be a result of a Kubernetes internal error like the control plane & data plane not being able to communicate. Follow normal Kubernetes troubleshooting steps.
```

> # Azure service operator (ASO) troubleshooting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Azure Service Operator (ASO) troubleshooting
```

> This document is written with a point of view of help newbies like me to understand gotchas and as the knowledge will grow across, this docuemnt will evolve and not needed one day. Learning with mistakes is sometimes to good to learn and this document will try to cover points of gotchas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document is written from a beginner perspective to help those new to project understand common issues they might face. We hope to iterate and grow this document, so feel free to contribute!

> When you create azure service operator, you might occasionally come across problems. This article details some common problems and troubleshooting steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# What are the key learning so far

> ## What are Operators and OLM?
> Following page conatins decent information regarding the operator and OLM concepts: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.6/operators/understanding/olm-what-operators-are.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What are Operators and OLM?
To learn more about operators, Red Hat OpenShift has a good article on what they are conceptually and how valuable they can be. You can also find details on the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) [here]](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.6/operators/understanding/olm-what-operators-are.html)
```

> ## Is Az-CLI version is important?
> Yes, please make sure it is 2.0.53 or later, user `az --version` to find the right version in user machine. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Is Az-CLI version is important?
Yes, please make sure it is 2.0.53 or later. To check your current version, run `az --version`. If you need to update to a later version, check out [Update Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/update-azure-cli).

```

## Does the steps work out-of-order?

> No, order is key for the first time user, setting\installing the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) and operator service up the operator-namespace and then the steps 1 to 7. The step 1 to 7 mentioned in the operator hub page safely assumes that user have successfully installed the OLM.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nope, for your first run through, make sure you follow the steps in order. This means setting up and installing the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) and proceeding with steps 1 to 7. This is also true for the steps documented in OperatorHub catalog. The steps there assume that you have successfully installed OLM.

```

> ## How to move forward for the out-of-order run \ or wrong input failure for the intermediate steps?
> 
> ASO tool is growing currently all these intermediate steps to set up ASO in users existing cluster will fail with either "already-existing" error if user have already tried to run the ASO steps half way. Intent of below help is to unblock user in case of out-of-order run of steps or if user faces some issues from the intermediate steps.
> 
> It is ok to learn by experiment and backward engineering. Kubernetes eco-system to provide that flexibility but only needs bit of tinkering around to get the ASO running. Let me take you through a scenario:
> 
> Lets assume that that as an end user Tats povided wrong service principal which was incorrect for the ASO to be correctly set-up.
> 
> **Sample scenario**: Lets take a user sceanrio example where `user-A` mistakenly used an out-dated or wrong service principal secret for `azure-service-operator` which will result in unsuccessful result, how can we rectify now:
> 
> * ~~ToDo: I plan to add specific user-case scenario here: (possibly with screenshot)~~ (Do we need screenshot mockup here?) 
> 
> * So at this point the issue happend in step-4 mentioned [here](https://operatorhub.io/operator/azure-service-operator), essentially all user need to do is re-new or refresh their service-principal credentials.
>     * Re-new the service principal, helpful command mentioned ins step-4 [here](https://operatorhub.io/operator/azure-service-operator). 
> 
>     * Then after re-generating that user need to make sure that the only steps they need to manually run are step-5 onwards mentioned here: https://operatorhub.io/operator/azure-service-operator , But we can simplify a little more here as most of these command will be available. use command : `az account show` to get `AZURE_TENANT_ID` is the `Tenant ID`, `AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`, `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`. (This is just indicative, you can follow how to get these variable from Step-5 here https://operatorhub.io/operator/azure-service-operator)
> 
>         * Decoding the cloud env var for the users: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-powershell-independent-clouds#get-endpoint-using-get-azenvironment 
> 
>     * create `azureoperatorsettings.yaml` file from step-6 mentioend here: https://operatorhub.io/operator/azure-service-operator replace the placeholder values into the respective field and do `kubectl apply -f <location of your azureoperatorsettings.yaml fil>`
> 
>     * User should be able to see `azureoperator-controller-manager-***` pods running in there cluster. helpful command to see the pod: `kubectl get pods -n operators` 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##So what if I messed up while installing Azure Service Operator?

If you've accidentally run through the steps out of order, or are having some trouble with the install process, check out the tips below. Thankfully, the Kubernetes eco-system provides enough flexibility that you should only need a bit of tinkering around to get the ASO running. Let's go through a scenario:

Let's assume that as an end user Tats provided the wrong service principal when trying to set up ASO.

**Sample scenario**: `user-A` has mistakenly used an outdated or incorrect service principal secret for `azure-service-operator` which resulted in an unsuccessful install. What can we do now?

[//]: # ToDo: I plan to add specific user-case scenario here: (possibly with screenshot)~~ (Do we need screenshot mockup here?)

We can recognize that we reached this issue at step 4 of our install guide[here](https://operatorhub.io/operator/azure-service-operator). To remediate this, all the user needs to do is renew or refresh their service-principal credentials.
    * To renew the service principal, see the command mentioned in step 4 [here](https://operatorhub.io/operator/azure-service-operator). 

    * Next, after regenerating/renewing the credentials, the user needs to re-run step 5 onwards as mentioned [here] (https://operatorhub.io/operator/azure-service-operator). However, only a few of these steps are impacted by the service principal change. For example, the step to retrieve and set the `AZURE_TENANT_ID` can be skipped.
    
Next, find the cloud env var for your cluster. You can find instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-powershell-independent-clouds#get-endpoint-using-get-azenvironment). 

Once you have that, create the `azureoperatorsettings.yaml` file from step 6 mentioned [here](https://operatorhub.io/operator/azure-service-operator), and replace the placeholder values into the respective fields. Finally, run `kubectl apply -f <location of your azureoperatorsettings.yaml fil>`.

You should be able to see `azureoperator-controller-manager-***` pods running in your cluster. To view the pods, run `kubectl get pods -n operators` 

```

> ## I have already installed `azureserviceoperator` but unsure what service principal ceret is in use?
> this command might be able to help you for some recon for your secret locally. `kubectl get secret azureoperatorsettings -n operators -o go-template='{{range $k,$v := .data}}{{printf \"%s: \" $k}}{{if not $v}}{{$v}}{{else}}{{$v | base64decode}}{{end}}{{\"\n\"}}{{end}}'` [SO thread for reference](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56909180/decoding-kubernetes-secret/58117444#58117444)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## I have already installed `azureserviceoperator` but I'm not sure which service principal secret is in use?
This command might be able to help you see your secret locally. 
```kubectl get secret azureoperatorsettings -n operators -o go-template='{{range $k,$v := .data}}{{printf \"%s: \" $k}}{{if not $v}}{{$v}}{{else}}{{$v | base64decode}}{{end}}{{\"\n\"}}{{end}}'```
[SO thread for reference](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56909180/decoding-kubernetes-secret/58117444#58117444)
```

> ## What if I see operator-namespace already exit for the cluster?
> 
> If user will see already installed operator-namespace then it means user have tried installing the operator-namespace in-past, and it also means that user can now successfully move to the next step. 
> 
> But, let me here add a small note that in the edge case of anyone playing around with out-of-order running of command, and wondering why the existing operator running is not 
> 
> Minor detail of when steps are done out of sync and user see: 
> 
> * `namespace already exist` - This means that azure-service-operator (ASO) is already been run for the cluster before.
> 
> * `service-principal` issues, silent failures with service principal in use is expired or re-set in those case you can follow the as mentioned here https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/create-an-azure-service-principal-azure-cli#create-a-service-principalor in step-4 here in official service operator page. https://operatorhub.io/operator/azure-service-operator
> 
> * `kubectl api-resource` failure with `error: unable to retirve the com0plete list of server APIs: metcs.k8s.io/vabeta=1: the server is currently unable to handle the request.` - This error is a big indicaiton of network error within cluster and this is jsut the causal occurrence and not something ASO needs handles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What if I see the operator namespace already exists for the cluster?

If you see that the operator namespace already exists for the cluster, it's likely the result of trying to install the operator previously. It also means that you can now successfully move on to the next step. 

However, this can also be a symptom of incorrectly installing the operator, for example, trying to run the install guide out of order. Other common issues related to an "out-of-order install":

* `namespace already exist` - This means that azure-service-operator (ASO) has already been run for the cluster before.

* `service-principal` issues: If you're seeing silent failures with service principal in use, meaning it is expired or needs to be reset, you can follow the steps as mentioned [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/create-an-azure-service-principal-azure-cli#create-a-service-principal) or in step 4 here in the [OperatorHub guidance](https://operatorhub.io/operator/azure-service-operator).

* `kubectl api-resource` failure with `error: unable to retrieve the complete list of server APIs: metcs.k8s.io/vabeta=1: the server is currently unable to handle the request.` : This error indicates a networking error within your cluster and is not related to your Azure Service Operator installation or configuration.
```

>  ## I see connection refuse for `cert-manager-package`?
>  One of the possible reason could be related to following open error: https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/issues/2752

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ## When trying to install cert-manager, I'm seeing that the connection is refused for `cert-manager-package`?
This could be related to following open error: https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/issues/2752
```

>  ## How to get operator crash loops for azureoperator-controller-manager?
> 
> `kubectl describe  pod operators`
> 
> To get Logs in case aso operator is crashlooping : `kubectl logs -n  operators pod/azureoperator-controller-manager-****** --conatiner manager`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ## The azureoperator-controller-manager seems to be in a crash loop. How do I investigate?

`kubectl describe  pod operators`

To get logs in case ASO operator is crashlooping : `kubectl logs -n  operators pod/azureoperator-controller-manager-****** --container manager`
```

> ## What if I see cert-manager-webhook timeout errors?
> This is network related again, and possible check is there is any on-going network issue. Common error message like: `Post https://cert-manager-webhook.cert-manager.svc:443/mutate?timeout=30s: connection refused` 
> 
> ## What if I am seeing APIS server error like `metrics.k8s.io/v1beta1: the server is currently unable to handle reqest`?
> This could possibly due to k8s inetrnal error like contlplane & dataplane cannot communicate. Not directly associated with azure service operator.
> 
> ## How do I create service principal?
> This link might come handy: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What if I see cert-manager-webhook timeout errors?
This is network related, and you should check to see if there are any ongoing network issues. This is evidenced by common error messages like: `Post https://cert-manager-webhook.cert-manager.svc:443/mutate?timeout=30s: connection refused` 

## What if I am seeing APIserver errors like `metrics.k8s.io/v1beta1: the server is currently unable to handle request`?
This could be a result of a Kubernetes internal error like control plane & data plane not being able to communicate. Follow normal Kubernetes troubleshooting steps.

## How do I create a service principal?
This link might come handy: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal 
```
